[Feat] overview recommendations for BPMN (#99)
libremfg/libremfg.github.io: content/how-to/bpmn/orchestration-overview.md

---
title: "Overview: orchestrate processes"
categories: "how-to"
description: >
   An overview of how to use Rhize's custom BPMN engine and UI to orchestrate workflows.
weight: 10
menu:
  main:
    parent: howto-bpmn
---

Rhize's BPMN engine and UI provides a way to coordinate complex tasks and exchange messages between the Rhize platform and your internal services.

> For example, you can use BPMN to coordinate messages between services, create alerts and events, transform incoming work orders into their ISA-95 representation, and store them in their Rhize DB.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, you can use BPMN to coordinate messages between services, create alerts and events, transform incoming work orders into their ISA-95 representation, and store them in the Rhize DB.
```

   These messages often originate from level-3 and level-4 systems, such as an ERP.
- **[Timer events]({{< relref "bpmn-elements#timer" >}}).** These work according to a schedule, either one-off or repeating.
- **[API call]({{< relref "/how-to/gql/" >}})**. You can also start a BPMN workflow by sending a {{< abbr "mutation" >}} to the GraphQL API.
  API triggers are commonly used in low-code workflows. For example, an operator may press a button to start a workflow and wait for its response.

  To start BPMN workflows, Rhize has two primary API operations:

     - `createAndRunBpmn` starts a workflow and does not wait for the response (asynchronous).
     - `createAndRunBPMNSync` starts a workflow and waits for the process to complete or abort (synchronous).

## Data processing and API calls

Besides exchanging messages, BPMN workflows can also transform and evaluate payloads and make HTTP requests.
All the data in a process is stored in a {{< abbr "process variable context" >}} that each element can access.

The general logical elements are as follows:

> - To evaluate conditions, use a [gateway]({{< relref "/how-to/bpmn/bpmn-elements#gateways" >}})

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- To evaluate conditions, use an [exclusive gateway]({{< relref "/how-to/bpmn/bpmn-elements#gateways" >}})
```

Gateways allow more than just conditionals, so just adjusting this to be a bit more specific.
